The next thing that needed to
happen was on the Control Plane
in connecting different
elements on the network,
the callers to the called party,
and before it went digital,
the control information was
all in the analog domain and
it was in-band signaling.
That is,
they would use dual tone frequencies,
like for number five it would be
a combination of 770 Hz plus 1336 Hz.
And this is how switches
could talk to each other,
at the most,
10 characters at 30 bits per second.
When it went digital, the protocol was
signaling system seven, or short SS7.
So what the diagram is showing here is
PSTN is
the Public Switched Telephony Network, and
all these devices that are connected
to it are on the control plane.
I'm not showing the data plane
in this particular picture.
SSP is a service switching point.
That is where a telephone or a fax
machine would connect to this network.
And SCP is a service control point
where you could connect the computer or
a database to do more
advanced intelligent things.
The other name for this network
was advanced intelligent network.
The keypoint that I wanted to
stress on here is the STP,
which is the Signal Transfer Point.
This is just like a router on the Internet
in the second module that we saw.
They always came in pairs to
increase the reliability in
the telephony network.
And the main thing that I want to
take away from here is the SS7 is
a completely packet switched network.
And it had about 2,000
bytes of payload for
each of the messages, each control plane
would take 64 kilobits per second channel.
And using this you could do call set up,
call tear down, and billing.
And with the computers and
data bases attached to it,
it could do a lot more clever things
than was possible in the analog world.